Elasticsearch: Docs for raw query editor (#116639)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/datasources/elasticsearch/query-editor/index.md

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
The raw query editor is an experimental feature that must be enabled using the `elasticsearchRawDSLQuery` [feature toggle](ref:configure-grafana-feature-toggles).
{{< /admonition >}}

The raw query editor allows you to write Elasticsearch queries using the native [Elasticsearch Query DSL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl.html).

### Switch between Builder and Code modes

To access the raw query editor, click the **Code** toggle in the top-right corner of the query editor. You can switch between **Builder** and **Code** modes:

- **Builder** - Visual query builder with dropdown menus and forms
- **Code** - JSON editor for writing raw Elasticsearch DSL queries

### Write raw DSL queries

When in Code mode, you can write complete Elasticsearch query DSL in JSON format. The editor provides:

- **Syntax highlighting** for JSON
- **Auto-formatting** - Click the **Format** button or press `Shift+Alt+F` to format your query
- **Keyboard shortcuts** - Press `Ctrl+Enter` (or `Cmd+Enter` on Mac) to run the query
- **Real-time validation** - Invalid JSON will be highlighted with error messages

### Time range handling

> Grafana automatically applies the dashboard time range to your queries by adding a time range filter to the query. You can override this by including your own time range in the `query` section.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to filter by the dashboard's time range, you need to use Grafana's template variable `$__timeFilter()` in your raw DSL.
```
